welcome to Rossum healthy I'm Yulia and
I'm right next to dr. Douglas Graham I'm
going to ask about the 80/10/10 diet dr.
Douglas Graham is the father of the
80/10/10 movement and I thought he must
be the perfect person to ask about the
80/10/10 diet welcome thank you very
much for having enjoy being really thank
you I wanted to ask you talk about the
key issues that people face when they
switch to the 80/10/10 diet oh sure
there's lots of key issues because the
program is really very very simple and
in many ways people oversimplify to the
point of not really following the
program where they think they're
following the program when they're
really not
or they haven't done the numbers enough
to just be familiar this isn't a diet
that requires a lot of weighing and
measuring but you don't have to at least
learn the basics so you know what you're
dealing with to understand that most
fruits have a single-digit fat
percentage and that most vegetables have
a have a protein percentage in the teens
to just know some of the little bitty
basics that the fruits carry a lot more
calories than vegetables as a rule
but I think the primary thing about the
diet is
then it's a program
where you experience no cravings if
you're experiencing any cravings at all
you're not following 80/10/10 you've
missed some critical link of it there's
really only five basic food cravings
they are the craving for sweets at the
end of a meal most people experience
that after almost every meal hence the
need for dessert they are looking for a
dessert right and and this this is a
clear indicator that the the meal wasn't
sweet enough itself that the meal wasn't
satisfying if you're only going to be
satisfied by fillings craving for sweets
at the end you don't even really have to
ever have cravings we want to be able to
work out of preferences and choice not
out of cravings or obsessions or
addictions and we really want to be able
to just say well I'd prefer this or I'd
prefer that and and let it go so if
you're craving sweets at the end of the
meal or if you're craving sweets in
between meals if you're craving sweets
in between meals whether it's chocolate
or candy or alcohol or dried fruit these
are all very good indicators that the
last meal wasn't sweet enough to hold
you until the next meal because the
satiation factor that is key is always
sugar if you don't have enough sugar
your blood sugar plummets and you
experience appetite this happens again
and again and again you must supply
enough sugar at a meal so that it will
hold your blood sugar stable through to
the next meal so those two cravings for
sugar whether it's in between meals or
at the end of a meal those are dead
giveaways that your lifestyle isn't
sweet enough it doesn't have enough
fresh fruit if you crave heavy foods at
the end of the meal
as I'm fond of saying Oh give me a few
nuts maybe a handful of nuts at the heck
with it just hand me the bagging not so
I'm gonna eat nuts well what happens
invariably where I want an avocado and
maybe another avocado I can't get enough
of akkad oh if you're craving really
heavy rich food at the end of a meal
this once again tells you you didn't eat
enough fruit it's a real simple thing
when we convert our complex carbohydrate
intake totally over to fruit to the
simple carbohydrates and fruit you have
to eat a lot of volume it takes a little
bit of getting used to in the mindset to
see a bigger pile of food and realize
that it's actually a smaller pile of
calories so we have to eat enough volume
and and if you what happens with these
protein or the fatty cravings at the end
of the meal you really want something
rich and invariably what happens is you
eat all those nuts and then you still
want something sweet it's just your
brain was playing a little trick saying
I need to get the calories from
something really concentrated it didn't
first picture it didn't first trigger
fruit as an idea or sweet as an idea but
by the time you've eaten all the nuts
you care for most the time you still
find out you know I really want
something sweet anyway